## Bioinformatics-Capstone-MeaghanBarrett: Spring 2026 

# Genome Analysis Workflow
Contains a microbial genome analysis workflow using the raw data sequence generated by SeqCenter. This project is a step by step bioinformatic guide for quality control when comparing genomones and feature detection.

# Overview

The goal is to process and analyze raw bacterial seqencing data to produce assemble, annotated genomes, and interpreting their biological features.

# Workflow

Raw sequencing data from SeqCenter analyzed using the following steps:

1. Quality Control
- Use fastp to trim, filter, and quality assessment of reads.
- Aggregate quality reports with MultiQC for summary visualization.
  
2. Genome Assembly
- Assemble sequencing reads into draft genomes.
- Examine assembly quality and completeness.
  
3. Genome Annotataion
- Examine genes and genomic features.
- Assign putative functional annotations.

4. Comparative Genomics
- Compare genomics of all samples.
- Identify shared and unique genomic regions.
  
5. Feature Detection
- Detect interest of genomic features.
- Examples may include metabolic pathways.

# Folders
  - Illumina Data contains the raw data that came from Professor Lauren Brooks (UVU Professor).
  - Illumina Raw Files: 
    AC2_S144_R1_001.fastq.gz		AC2_S144_R2_001.fastq.gz		
    BS1_S145_R1_001.fastq.gz		SBDF1_S141_R1_001.fastq.gz
    BS1_S145_R2_001.fastq.gz		SBDF1_S141_R2_001.fastq.gz
    BS2_S143_R1_001.fastq.gz		SBEBB3_S140_R1_001.fastq.gz
    BS2_S143_R2_001.fastq.gz		SBEBB3_S140_R2_001.fastq.gz
    C2_S146_R1_001.fastq.gz			C2_S146_R2_001.fastq.gz
    WT4_S142_R1_001.fastq.gz    WT4_S142_R2_001.fastq.gz
    MB3_S147_R1_001.fastq.gz    MB3_S147_R2_001.fastq.gz 
    run_fastp.sh 
    
  - 
  - 

